# Documentation for the `sas2typst_report` package.
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 *sas2typst_report* 
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
### Version information:
  
- Package: sas2typst_report
- Version: 0.1.0
- Generated: 2025-12-25T13:27:42
- Author(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- Maintainer(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- License: MIT
- File SHA256: `F*8E857D554BE705A56F31D79CED274AA14A3EFE59636F65F6651765BEFE016244` for this version
- Content SHA256: `C*26FFF8B0B6A19CC05F2CF424C3076B31F1EB7F1E72D0C4BED2DCE9E8201AADAA` for this version
  
---
 
# The `sas2typst_report` package, version: `0.1.0`;
  
---
 
sas2typst_report is a SAS macro package that enables direct generation of Typst (.typ) files from within SAS. Typst is a modern, declarative typesetting system designed for fast and precise document layout. This package allows users to write native Typst code inline in SAS programs and seamlessly stream SAS dataset contents into Typst tables for report and listing production.
  
---
 
  
---
 
Required SAS Components: 
  - Base SAS Software
  
---
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
*SAS package generated by SAS Package Framework, version `20250729`*
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
# The `sas2typst_report` package content
The `sas2typst_report` package consists of the following content:
 
1. [`%typ_dataset_csv()` macro ](#typdatasetcsv-macro-1 )
2. [`%typst_end()` macro ](#typstend-macro-2 )
3. [`%typst_start()` macro ](#typststart-macro-3 )
  
 
4. [License note](#license)
  
---
 
## `%typ_dataset_csv()` macro <a name="typdatasetcsv-macro-1"></a> ######

Macro:     typ_dataset_csv  
 Purpose:   Extract rows from a SAS dataset based on a WHERE condition and output the values in a CSV-like format that can be directly embedded into a Typst table().  
 Parameters:  
   ds       = Input SAS dataset name  
   wh       = WHERE condition to filter observations (use %nrbquote if needed)  
   varlist  = List of variables to output (space-delimited)  
 Details:  
   Outputs comma-separated values suitable for Typst tables  
 Data Handling:  
   All values are quoted  
   Double quotation marks (") inside character variables are replaced with Unicode right double quotation mark (U+201D)  
   A warning is issued if such replacement occurs  

Useage:  
 %typ_dataset_csv(ds=sashelp.class,wh=%nrbquote(AGE<=15),varlist=NAME AGE SEX WEIGHT)

  
---
 
## `%typst_end()` macro <a name="typstend-macro-2"></a> ######

Macro:     typst_end  
 Purpose:   Finalize Typst source file generation and properly close PROC STREAM output.  
 Details:  
   Terminates PROC STREAM using explicit delimiter (;;;;)  
   Clears the associated FILENAME reference  
   Must be used in conjunction with typst_start  
 Notes:  
   Always call this macro to ensure a valid Typst file

  
---
 
## `%typst_start()` macro <a name="typststart-macro-3"></a> ######

Macro:     typst_start  
 Purpose:   Initialize Typst source file generation using PROC STREAM and prepare the output environment.  
 Parameters:  
   outdir   = Output directory (currently not used)  
   outfile  = Name of the Typst output file (default: sample.typ)  
 Global Macro Variables:  
   nw       = Line break token for Typst output.
 Note: In general, native Typst code can be written directly as-is. However, due to Typst syntax requirements, explicit line breaks must be inserted using &nw at positions where a line break is required.  
 Usage:  
   %typst_start(outfile=my_listing.typ);  
     <Typst source code>  
   %typst_end();

  
---
 
  
---
 
# License <a name="license"></a> ######
 
	Copyright (c) [2025]  [Yutaka Morioka]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy   
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal    
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights   
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell   
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is   
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                      
                                                                                
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included       
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                        
                                                                                
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR    
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,      
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE   
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER        
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
SOFTWARE.
  
---
 
